Expanded Merkle DAG Tutorial (#582)
ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io: src/tutorials/0008-merkle-dags/01.md

---
    title: "Data has Structure!"
    type: "multiple-choice" # can be "text", "code", "file-upload" or "multiple-choice"
---

> In our Decentralized Data Structures tutorial, we discussed the

Author: May wish to change the name of the other tutorial now, given that it only talks about CIDs.

Reviewer: I've renamed that one and updated references to it throughout the codebase.

data with *structure*, and links form a critical part of that
structure.

## Data Structures

Whether you're a programmer or not, you're surrounded by
structured data. Lists, dictionaries, and catalogs all help us
organize information and take into account the relationships
between various pieces of data.

At a certain level of detail, it starts to become necessary to
formally describe the properties of the data we work with, giving
rise to concrete specifications called, appropriately enough,
*data structures*! From Wikipedia:

> In computer science, a data structure is a data organization,
> management and storage format that enables efficient access and
> modification. More precisely, a data structure is a collection of
> data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or
> operations that can be applied to the data.

In programming, data structures are everywhere. The way you
organize data into variables in order to use them in programs
involves anywhere from dozens to millions of data structures. If
you're a developer, you're probably familiar with common data
structures like arrays, objects, graphs, etc. These structures

> are often linked together: for example, in a list of items, each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are often linked together: for example, in a common data structure known as a _linked list_, each
```

> item might indicate where to find the next item in a computer's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
item indicates where to find the next item in a computer's
```

memory.

On the decentralized web we access data directly from our peers,
rather than from a central authority. Within an isolated
environment, such as your own laptop, you can have a great degree
of trust in the data structures you work with in memory or on
disk. However, in a decentralized system you have less, or
possibly zero, trust among peers. To fit this environment, we
need an efficient way to link data structures together, while
still preserving our ability to verify their integrity (a crucial
property of CIDs). To continue the previous example, if we're

> traversing a list that we got from the distributed web, we don't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
traversing a linked list that we got from the distributed web, we don't
```

want a bad actor to be able to insert items in the middle
undetected.

> In this tutorial, we will explore this notion, learning how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we'll explore this notion, learning how to
```

develop a specialized data structure, called a Merkle DAG, that

> meets these needs. As we will see, this structure provides the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meets these needs. As we'll see, this structure provides the
```

foundation for a trustworthy, distributed web of interlinked

> data, just like the web we know and love today.

Reviewer: I feel like this last statement implies that the centralized web is also trustworthy and distributed, but curious how others read this.

Author: I agree. Snipping the end. The only reason I tried to wriggle that in there was to pull back from the micro view of data structures back to the macro view of linked documents, but I think "web" probably does that well enough.
